README.md, before:

[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/City-of-Helsinki/kukkuu-admin/branch/develop/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/City-of-Helsinki/kukkuu-admin)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/City-of-Helsinki/kukkuu-admin.svg?branch=develop)](https://travis-ci.org/City-of-Helsinki/kukkuu-admin)


# Staff interface for Kulttuurin kummilapset / Culture Kids

:baby: Staff interface for Kulttuurin kummilapset / Culture Kids :violin:

## About

More information about the Culture Kids project is available in the UI project: 
https://github.com/City-of-Helsinki/kukkuu-ui/

## Deployments

Production environment:
TODO

Testing environment:
https://kukkuu-admin.test.kuva.hel.ninja/

## See also

The backend:
https://github.com/City-of-Helsinki/kukkuu

The end user interface:
https://github.com/City-of-Helsinki/kukkuu-ui

## Development 

### Getting started

1. Clone the repo.
2. Use file `.env.local` to modify environment variables if needed. For more info, check [this](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/adding-custom-environment-variables#docsNav).
3. Run either
    * `yarn start` to run the app normally **or**
    * `docker-compose up` to run the app in a Docker container. In the future when there are changes that need rebuilding the container, run `docker-compose up --build` instead.
4. Open [http://localhost:3001](http://localhost:3001) to view the app in the browser.

### Setting up Tunnistamo and Kukkuu API locally with Docker

#### Set Tunnistamo hostname
Add the following line to your hosts file (`/etc/hosts` on mac and linux):

    127.0.0.1 tunnistamo-backend

#### Create a new OAuth app on GitHub
Go to https://github.com/settings/developers/ and add a new app with the following settings:

- Application name: can be anything, e.g. local tunnistamo
- Homepage URL: http://tunnistamo-backend:8000
- Authorization callback URL: http://tunnistamo-backend:8000/accounts/github/login/callback/

Save. You'll need the created **Client ID** and **Client Secret** for configuring tunnistamo in the next step.

#### Install local Tunnistamo
Clone https://github.com/City-of-Helsinki/tunnistamo/.

Follow the instructions for setting up tunnistamo locally. Before running `docker-compose up` set the following settings in tunnistamo roots `docker-compose.env.yaml`:

- SOCIAL_AUTH_GITHUB_KEY: **Client ID** from the GitHub OAuth app
- SOCIAL_AUTH_GITHUB_SECRET: **Client Secret** from the GitHub OAuth app

After you've got tunnistamo running locally, ssh to the tunnistamo docker container:

`docker-compose exec django bash`

and execute the following four commands inside your docker container:

```bash
./manage.py add_oidc_client -n kukkuu-admin-ui -t "id_token token" -u "http://localhost:3001/callback" -i https://api.hel.fi/auth/kukkuu-admin-ui -m github -s dev
./manage.py add_oidc_client -n kukkuu-api -t "code" -u http://localhost:8081/return -i https://api.hel.fi/auth/kukkuu -m github -s dev -c
./manage.py add_oidc_api -n kukkuu -d https://api.hel.fi/auth -s email,profile -c https://api.hel.fi/auth/kukkuu
./manage.py add_oidc_api_scope -an kukkuu -c https://api.hel.fi/auth/kukkuu-admin-ui -n "Kulttuurin kummilapset Admin UI" -d"Lorem ipsum"
```

To make Kukkuu Admin use the local Tunnistamo set `REACT_APP_OIDC_AUTHORITY="http://tunnistamo-backend:8000"` for example in file `.env.local`.

#### Install Kukkuu API locally
Clone the repository (https://github.com/City-of-Helsinki/kukkuu). Follow the instructions for running kukkuu with docker. Before running `docker-compose up` set the following settings in kukkuu roots `docker-compose.env.yaml`:

- DEBUG=1
- CORS_ORIGIN_ALLOW_ALL=1
- TOKEN_AUTH_AUTHSERVER_URL=http://tunnistamo-backend:8000/openid
- APPLY_MIGRATIONS=1
- CREATE_SUPERUSER=1
- TOKEN_AUTH_AUTHSERVER_URL=http://tunnistamo-backend:8000/openid
- MEDIA_ROOT=/app/var/

To make Kukkuu Admin use the local Kukkuu API set `REACT_APP_API_URI="localhost:8081/graphql"` for example in file `.env.local`.

## Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

### `yarn start`

Runs the app in the development mode.<br />
Open [http://localhost:3001](http://localhost:3001) to view it in the browser.

The page will reload if you make edits.<br />
You will also see any lint errors in the console.

### `yarn test`

Launches the test runner in the interactive watch mode.<br />
See the section about [running tests](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/running-tests) for more information.

### `yarn build`

Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.<br />
It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.<br />
Your app is ready to be deployed!

See the section about [deployment](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/deployment) for more information.

## Debugging

See instructions in the sister project: https://github.com/City-of-Helsinki/kukkuu-ui/

Commit message:

Add info about graphql-types yarn script

README.md, after:

[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/City-of-Helsinki/kukkuu-admin/branch/develop/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/City-of-Helsinki/kukkuu-admin)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/City-of-Helsinki/kukkuu-admin.svg?branch=develop)](https://travis-ci.org/City-of-Helsinki/kukkuu-admin)


# Staff interface for Kulttuurin kummilapset / Culture Kids

:baby: Staff interface for Kulttuurin kummilapset / Culture Kids :violin:

## About

More information about the Culture Kids project is available in the UI project: 
https://github.com/City-of-Helsinki/kukkuu-ui/

## Deployments

Production environment:
TODO

Testing environment:
https://kukkuu-admin.test.kuva.hel.ninja/

## See also

The backend:
https://github.com/City-of-Helsinki/kukkuu

The end user interface:
https://github.com/City-of-Helsinki/kukkuu-ui

## Development 

### Getting started

1. Clone the repo.
2. Use file `.env.local` to modify environment variables if needed. For more info, check [this](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/adding-custom-environment-variables#docsNav).
3. Run either
    * `yarn start` to run the app normally **or**
    * `docker-compose up` to run the app in a Docker container. In the future when there are changes that need rebuilding the container, run `docker-compose up --build` instead.
4. Open [http://localhost:3001](http://localhost:3001) to view the app in the browser.

### Setting up Tunnistamo and Kukkuu API locally with Docker

#### Set Tunnistamo hostname
Add the following line to your hosts file (`/etc/hosts` on mac and linux):

    127.0.0.1 tunnistamo-backend

#### Create a new OAuth app on GitHub
Go to https://github.com/settings/developers/ and add a new app with the following settings:

- Application name: can be anything, e.g. local tunnistamo
- Homepage URL: http://tunnistamo-backend:8000
- Authorization callback URL: http://tunnistamo-backend:8000/accounts/github/login/callback/

Save. You'll need the created **Client ID** and **Client Secret** for configuring tunnistamo in the next step.

#### Install local Tunnistamo
Clone https://github.com/City-of-Helsinki/tunnistamo/.

Follow the instructions for setting up tunnistamo locally. Before running `docker-compose up` set the following settings in tunnistamo roots `docker-compose.env.yaml`:

- SOCIAL_AUTH_GITHUB_KEY: **Client ID** from the GitHub OAuth app
- SOCIAL_AUTH_GITHUB_SECRET: **Client Secret** from the GitHub OAuth app

After you've got tunnistamo running locally, ssh to the tunnistamo docker container:

`docker-compose exec django bash`

and execute the following four commands inside your docker container:

```bash
./manage.py add_oidc_client -n kukkuu-admin-ui -t "id_token token" -u "http://localhost:3001/callback" -i https://api.hel.fi/auth/kukkuu-admin-ui -m github -s dev
./manage.py add_oidc_client -n kukkuu-api -t "code" -u http://localhost:8081/return -i https://api.hel.fi/auth/kukkuu -m github -s dev -c
./manage.py add_oidc_api -n kukkuu -d https://api.hel.fi/auth -s email,profile -c https://api.hel.fi/auth/kukkuu
./manage.py add_oidc_api_scope -an kukkuu -c https://api.hel.fi/auth/kukkuu-admin-ui -n "Kulttuurin kummilapset Admin UI" -d"Lorem ipsum"
```

To make Kukkuu Admin use the local Tunnistamo set `REACT_APP_OIDC_AUTHORITY="http://tunnistamo-backend:8000"` for example in file `.env.local`.

#### Install Kukkuu API locally
Clone the repository (https://github.com/City-of-Helsinki/kukkuu). Follow the instructions for running kukkuu with docker. Before running `docker-compose up` set the following settings in kukkuu roots `docker-compose.env.yaml`:

- DEBUG=1
- CORS_ORIGIN_ALLOW_ALL=1
- TOKEN_AUTH_AUTHSERVER_URL=http://tunnistamo-backend:8000/openid
- APPLY_MIGRATIONS=1
- CREATE_SUPERUSER=1
- TOKEN_AUTH_AUTHSERVER_URL=http://tunnistamo-backend:8000/openid
- MEDIA_ROOT=/app/var/

To make Kukkuu Admin use the local Kukkuu API set `REACT_APP_API_URI="localhost:8081/graphql"` for example in file `.env.local`.

## Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

### `yarn start`

Runs the app in the development mode.<br />
Open [http://localhost:3001](http://localhost:3001) to view it in the browser.

The page will reload if you make edits.<br />
You will also see any lint errors in the console.

### `yarn test`

Launches the test runner in the interactive watch mode.<br />
See the section about [running tests](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/running-tests) for more information.

### `yarn build`

Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.<br />
It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.<br />
Your app is ready to be deployed!

See the section about [deployment](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/deployment) for more information.

### `yarn build`

Fetches the schema from backend and updates typing information.

## Debugging

See instructions in the sister project: https://github.com/City-of-Helsinki/kukkuu-ui/
